The Giza Pyramid Complex, also called the Giza Necropolis,is the site on the Giza Plateau in Greater Cairo, 
Egypt that includes the Great Pyramid of Giza, the Pyramid of Khafre,
and the Pyramid of Menkaure, along with their associated pyramid complexes 
and the Great Sphinx of Giza. All were built during the Fourth Dynasty of 
the Old Kingdom of Ancient Egypt. The site also includes several cemeteries 
and the remains of a workers village.The site is at the edges of the Western Desert, approximately 9 kilometres (5.6 mi) west of the Nile River in the city of Giza,
and about 13 kilometres (8 mi) southwest of the city centre of Cairo.
The Great Pyramid and the Pyramid of Khafre are the largest pyramids built in ancient Egypt, 
and they have historically been common as emblems of Ancient Egypt in
the Western imagination.[1][2] They were popularised in Hellenistic times,
when the Great Pyramid was listed by Antipater of Sidon as one of the Seven Wonders of the World. 
It is by far the oldest of the Ancient Wonders and the only one still in existence.


Khan el-Khalili (Arabic: خان الخليلي‎) is a famous bazaar and souq (or souk) in the historic center of Cairo, Egypt.
Established as a center of trade in the Mamluk era and named for one of its several historic caravanserais,
the bazaar district has since become one of Cairo's main attractions for tourists and Egyptians alike.
It is also home to many Egyptian artisans and workshops involved in the production of traditional crafts and souvenirs.

The Luxor Temple (Arabic: معبد الاقصر) is a large Ancient Egyptian temple complex 
located on the east bank of the Nile River in the city today known as Luxor (ancient Thebes) and was constructed approximately 1400 BCE. 
In the Egyptian language it is known as ipet resyt, "the southern sanctuary". In Luxor there are several great temples on the east and west banks.
 Four of the major mortuary temples visited by early travelers include the Temple of Seti I at Gurnah, 
the Temple of Hatshepsut at Deir el Bahri, the Temple of Ramesses II (i.e., Ramesseum),
 and the Temple of Ramesses III at Medinet Habu. The two primary cults' temples on the east bank are known as the Karnak and Luxor.
[1] Unlike the other temples in Thebes, Luxor temple is not dedicated to a cult god or a deified version of the pharaoh in death. Instead, 
Luxor temple is dedicated to the rejuvenation of kingship; 
it may have been where many of the pharaohs of Egypt were crowned in reality or conceptually (as in the case of Alexander the Great, who claimed he was crowned at Luxor but may never have traveled south of Memphis, near modern Cairo).
To the rear of the temple are chapels built by Amenhotep III of the 18th Dynasty, and Alexander. Other parts of the temple were built by Tutankhamun and Ramesses II.
During the Roman era, the temple and its surroundings were a legionary fortress and the home of the Roman government in the area.
During the Roman period a chapel inside the Luxor Temple originally dedicated to the goddess Mut was transformed into a Tetrarchy cult chapel and later into a church.[2]



The Cairo Tower (Egyptian Arabic: برج القاهرة‎, Borg El-Qāhira) is a free-standing concrete tower in Cairo, Egypt. At 187 m (614 ft),
it is the tallest structure in Egypt and North Africa. It was the tallest structure in Africa for ten years until 1971,
when it was surpassed by Hillbrow Tower in South Africa.
One of Cairo's well-known modern monuments,
sometimes considered Egypt's second most famous landmark after the Pyramids of Giza, 
it stands in the Gezira district on Gezira Island in the River Nile, close to downtown Cairo.